<title>smtp-client</title>

<h1>smtp-client</h1>
This is an SMTP client library written in C which can can get included
directly into another program.

This library has been released into the public domain using
[https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ | CC0]
.

Short feature list:
  *  C89
  *  Cross-platform (POSIX, BSD, MacOS, Windows)
  *  Send attachments
  *  Send custom email headers
  *  Specify multiple TO, CC, and BCC recipients
  *  Simple API and simple error handling (see Examples section below)
  *  Optional OpenSSL TLS connection and authentication methods
  *  TODO (almost completed): Test cases with 100% code and branch coverage
  *  Doxygen with 100% documentation including the test code
  *  Free software (permissive - CC0)

This library supports the following connection methods:
  *  No encryption
  *  STARTTLS (requires OpenSSL)
  *  TLS direct connection (deprecated - requires OpenSSL)

This library supports the following authentication methods:
  *  none
  *  PLAIN
  *  LOGIN
  *  CRAM-MD5 (requires OpenSSL)

To include the library into your application, simply copy the src/smtp.h and
src/smtp.c files into your project directory. Then include the smtp.h header
into your C file, compile smtp.c, and include the resulting object file into
the build system.

<h1>Examples</h1>
The following example code demonstrates how to use the library.

<pre>
<code>
#include <stdio.h>
#include "smtp.h"
#define MAIL_SERVER              "mail.example.com"
#define MAIL_PORT                "25"
#define MAIL_CONNECTION_SECURITY SMTP_SECURITY_STARTTLS
#define MAIL_FLAGS               (SMTP_DEBUG         | \
                                  SMTP_NO_CERT_VERIFY) /* Do not verify cert. */
#define MAIL_AUTH                SMTP_AUTH_PLAIN
#define MAIL_USER                "mail@example.com"
#define MAIL_PASS                "password"
#define MAIL_SUBJECT             "Test Email"
#define MAIL_BODY                "Test Email Body"
#define MAIL_TO                  "to@example.com"
int main(void)
{
  struct smtp *smtp;
  int rc;
  rc = smtp_open(MAIL_SERVER,
                 MAIL_PORT,
                 MAIL_CONNECTION_SECURITY,
                 MAIL_FLAGS,
                 &smtp);
  rc = smtp_auth(smtp,
                 MAIL_AUTH,
                 MAIL_USER,
                 MAIL_PASS);
  rc = smtp_address_add(smtp,
                        SMTP_ADDRESS_FROM,
                        MAIL_USER,
                        MAIL_USER);
  rc = smtp_address_add(smtp,
                        SMTP_ADDRESS_TO,
                        MAIL_TO,
                        MAIL_TO);
  rc = smtp_header_add(smtp,
                       "Subject",
                       MAIL_SUBJECT);
  rc = smtp_attachment_add_mem(smtp,
                               "test.txt",
                               "Test email attachment.",
                               -1);
  rc = smtp_mail(smtp,
                 MAIL_BODY);
  rc = smtp_close(smtp);
  if(rc != SMTP_STATUS_OK){
    fprintf(stderr, "smtp failed: %s\n", smtp_status_code_errstr(rc));
    return 1;
  }
  return 0;
}
</code>
</pre>

Place the code snippet above into a file named 'test.c' and change each #define
to the appropriate values for your mail server. Then copy smtp.c and smtp.h
into the same directory and run the following commands to compile with OpenSSL
support.

<kbd>cc -DSMTP_OPENSSL smtp.c -c -o smtp.o</kbd>

<kbd>cc -DSMTP_OPENSSL test.c -c -o test.o</kbd>

<kbd>cc test.o smtp.o -o smtp_test -lssl -lcrypto</kbd>

If you do not need OpenSSL support, remove the -DSMTP_OPENSSL and the
-lssl and -lcrypto arguments. The commands as above should create an
executable called 'smtp_test' which can send a test email using the specified
mail server.

A minimum amount of error checking has been included. Note that in the above
example, the program checks for error at the end of the mail session after
calling smtp_close. We can do this because if an error occurs in any of the
prior functions, the error will continue to propagate through any future
function calls until either closing the SMTP context using smtp_close or by
resetting the error condition using smtp_status_code_set. However, make sure to
review the smtp_status_code_set function prior to using that option for
clearing the error message to avoid any undefined behavior.

An existing C++ wrapper has been created which uses this library. See
[/file/src/SMTPMail.h | SMTPMail.h]
and
[/file/src/SMTPMail.cpp | SMTPMail.cpp]
for more details.

<h1>Technical Documentation</h1>
[https://www.somnisoft.com/smtp-client/technical-documentation/index.html|Technical Documentation]
generated from Doxygen.

<h1>Contact</h1>
If you have any questions, comments, suggestions or feature requests, please
send an email to
<a href='mailto:mail@somnisoft.com'>mail@somnisoft.com</a>
.

